Such a huge number came here, my dear countrymen who are here, very much like you. 

This is the power of our country that if I only greet you in different languages ??and dialects here, the hours will get out. This diversity can not be found in the whole world and in any other country.

Today, I am looking forward to seeing a mini India on Oman's land outside India. Indians coming from different corners of the country, Indians working in different areas, creating a grand picture today I look forward to our eyes.

Speak with me with the full force of Bharat Mata ... Jay, Bharat Mata Ki Jai, Bharat Mata Ki .... Jai. Vande Mataram, Vande Mataram, Vande Mataram, Vande Mataram, Vande Matram, Vande Mataram

Brothers and sisters, this is my first visit to Oman. Two hours before I came here from Dubai with you. You may have seen in the TV where I got the privilege of giving an Inaugural Address on the subject of Technology or Development as a Main Guest on the invitation of the President of UAE at the World Government Summit. This is not a limited subject to just giving a speech in any one program. These incidents have the honor of India's progress in itself. Today the world is giving respect to the world. The official visit is happening today, but ten years ago when I was Chief Minister in Gujarat, then as a Chief Minister my visit was to Africa and during this time I passed through Salalah. There was some time there and at that time the people who met me at that time got the privilege of meeting me again today. For a long time, I came to Oman, to come among you, I wanted to meet you, but that opportunity has come today.

I thank the Oman government for the Oman administration for those arrangements. The relations between colleagues India and Oman are hundreds of thousands of years old. Five thousand years ago, wooden ships from Lothal port of Gujarat used to come to Oman ... And while returning, the ships used to cross south of Lothal towards South by going through India's coastal shores to Sri Lanka. The arrangements have changed in these thousands of years. There was a long period of slavery in India but our centuries old business and cosmic bonds remained the same. After India's independence, institutions were developed to further strengthen trade and economic and social relations between the two countries. The Bina refinery, which is the central country in our country of India, is running with the help of Bina refinery Oman. At the same time more than one and a half thousand companies of Indian companies are working in Oman here. In the progress and development of Oman, India and all the promising people of India, in a way, our ambassador. It has been your partner. There is an ambassador from the government, but millions of ambassadors have been sitting in Oman from here on behalf of the country. You must have seen that for the last three years we kiss By creating a type of policy, with the countries of the Gulf, India's old and friendly relationships are wearing a new deposit according to today's time. Taking a new heights. Connecting with many dimensions You may have noticed that the growing progress of India and along with the interest of India in the Gulf countries is going on increasing day by day. These people do not believe that you do. You people feel. Its echo is being heard all around. Energy become a business, be invested, in every region the relations between the Gulf countries and India are becoming more important in their own right. Obviously, in India's historical relationship with Oman, a new Momentum has come up, a new wave has arrived, A new energy has come. Oman is geographically the closest neighbor of India's Gulf region. And it is our good fortune that the Raj family has a very intimate and old relationship with India. His Majesty Sultan has also been an integral part of India.

Today, in my presence in the stadium in the name of His Majesty Sultan, it is a special significance for you to be in such a large number. It is also a symbol of the fact that His Majesty Sultan and Oman are very intimate with India and Indians. For this gross special gesture, we are very grateful to him.

After talking to you I am going to meet His Majesty. And I will give them best wishes from all sides, from me, on behalf of the hundred and fifty million people for their health and longevity. And I will tell them that the purpose of my visit is to further strengthen friendship between our two countries. You all get a home-like atmosphere in Oman today. And they are not getting the same. The atmosphere you get here here is the people of the people here, and here are the marks of leadership values ??which we consider very important for diversity and co-existence in India.

About eight million brothers and sisters living in Oman are the goodwill ambassador of India. You have made a significant contribution to the development of Oman, has shed its sweat, has exposed its youth here. And I am glad that Oman's government also fully respects your immense hard work.

Brothers and Sisters, we are the social values ??of Indians so that we easily create space in every society. This is not it? Do you get sugar in milk as well? And sweeten the milk. This is our sacrament, it is our nature and we have inherited it. Because we are Vasudhaiva-Katumbambik which means that the entire world is a family. To adapt to time and society, our behavior, our traditions, our customs, respecting everyone by taking care of them, respecting every tradition, this is the specialty of India and you are here to live with those sacraments from India. You are doing an unprecedented job of winning the hearts of common life here and therefore you deserve to congratulate.

This is the reason why the world map has changed. Larger countries may have ended but India is still moving fast with full glory. How difficult is the path, how difficult the circumstances are, we are those people who come out of the crisis. Whatever change we have in mind for change for change, it is in our veins that with every disappointment we get out of hope and with excitement, it is our feeling.

Brothers and Sisters today are all alive to fulfill the resolution of New India, New India. Working day and night. And people sitting in Oman, good events happen in India, here you are not able to cross the happiness of people. You do not live happily. And if you find out the worst incident, then how many people are you bachena?

We are moving towards the creation of an India where the poorest of the poor also get an equal opportunity to move forward. Where poor people from poor can dream also. Hope to fulfill those dreams await. To meet those dreams, he found the way of Purushartha. There was no need to hold a finger and run it there. And with this role of taking hundreds of millions of people together, today the country is moving ahead with the power of progress on the path of progress, to speed up the dreams of New India at the pace.

Minimum Government, Maximum Governance With this mantra, we are doing many things for ease of living to make the life of the common citizen of the country easier. To simplify the procedures, eliminate unnecessary laws, bring the 40-50 page form in the official office on 4-5 page form, make arrangements for filling them online, listening to grievances of people, Taking all these works we have tried very hard to get involved in the government's culture.

The government is the same, the people are the same, the same is Bureaucracy, that is the instrument, the resource is the same, the same file, that Babu is, everything is the same but the results are coming some other. Changes begin to feel. In the changed India today, the poorest of the poor can not be run away from him by deteriorating the banks. In changed India, now the government is going to the house, going from the front, going to the poor widow's house and giving him the gas connection. Whose house is still dark in today. The government is now running a campaign to find those homes and give free electricity connections.

Today in the country ... and you can get some people from Oman, how can Modi be like this? You will not believe. It was as if the words were heard by the words that it was the work of the rich. This is a topic associated with big people. Today in Delhi, such a government has given you the opportunity to work that the poor have only 90 paisa per day and the other is a plan. That life and security insurance is being given at a premium of rupees one rupee. 90 paisa, I'm tea. So I know that tea does not come in 90 paisa. Under these insurance schemes, there was no objection in the family of the insurance and their family, you would be satisfied to know that when the poor government is sensitive and the scheme makes such a move, what is the result of that there is no crisis in the poor's family He Came, If there was any problem then insurance was coming. Such families have not had much time. It's hardly been a year. About two thousand crores of rupees have been given the claim amount to such poor families. Many of you may have experienced it. If you have to come to your family relatives then you will have to know.  

For colleagues, you do not have to wander to get a passport renewed for people to get a new passport. We have also expanded the passport arrangements in the post office so that the common man, who will get the passport first week or even after 15 days, was feared that due to the system of decentralize due to the efficiency of the post office to add that work The reason passports come in a day or two today.

No one wants to industry in our country. Wants to make new company It was a time when the company wanted to invest the capital, that it would take several days before registering a new company. I say with satisfaction that today that work only gets done in just 24 hours. You must have already heard that the governments used to make announcements that we made this law, we made that law, we made law enforcement, we made the decision. It was heard that people did not listen to you. I want to report vomit to him. There is a need to make laws wherever necessary, but after becoming our government, we have about 1400-1500 laws, We have worked to eliminate all the laws which are no longer needed. 1400- 1450 is to abolish the law, that is, in a way, one law takes place every day during my tenure. The accumulation of these laws on the common citizen becomes a burden. As he got the breath of salvation, in order to bring about change, we should change these laws to get rid of the old burden.

If you have carefully watched the budget of this time, you have announced a plan in this budget which has attracted the attention of the whole world. You may have even come to the attention, maybe you can not name me the names I have heard, but you have heard some names. Now that we have brought inside the budget. Long live India plans . Through this Ayushman Bharat Scheme , we have declared the Health Insurance for the people of the country, about 40-50 million citizens, 40-50 million citizens of India, and these people have declared Ayushman Bharat Scheme for this. And this scheme is such that, a family of 40-50 million people will be benefited, it will be treated for free up to Rs 5 lakh in a year, the expenditure of Rs 5 lakh for their disease will be compensated by the government through this insurance system.

Now if you say Ayushman India then perhaps you people should have felt that it has not heard the man but you must have seen it in the past. Newspapers from India gave him a new name. Wow .. somebody has heard. Hindustan newspapers have not opposed this scheme as Modi Care and those who oppose him, he says that Bhai plan is good but how will he do it?

Brothers and Sisters, Hindustan is such a country that if once it is resolved then it remains by itself. Such schemes for ease of living are making life easier for the lives of 100 million people of India.

The brothers and sisters come, the governments come, the people come and go. The key is that the quality of the government is giving the governance. Style of governance was earlier in which plans were not completed 30-30 years, 40-40 years. I was the Chief Minister of Gujarat. There was a Sardar Sarovar dam, Pandit Nehru jumped the Narmada scheme. And right now, last year that work has been completed. Sometimes it looked like this. The dam was made but the canals were not known. Bridges were built but the connecting roads could not be made. Pillars used to dig, but they did not get any wire, and if the wire was also used, people used to dry clothes. There was no electricity. New trains were announced but neither of them thought of tracks, Had not thought about trains. Never even on the paper, the tracks were never painted. With the style of misgovernance, the country does not move forward in the 21st century. And it is mandatory to change. And the long list of scams from above also damaged the credibility of the country and the world. From this situation, we have brought the country out now.

Today four years have come to happen, no one does not say this. How much did Modi take? And dear brothers and sisters of my country, today I bow my head with humility and say with great satisfaction that the country which I have been hoping for and expectations will never let me get scratched. Today is upside down though. Wherever I go, whoever meets me, even our opponents do not charge me, but what do they do? Just tell me, how much did Modi come? The first people asked how much was gone now to ask Modi how much came. I think this belief is born within the country. The same belief has given birth to new hope in the country. And that new hope is giving a new connotation to the resolution of building a new India.

Today, while focusing on citizen friendly, development friendly, accountable administration, we are working to advance the country. And the result is felt like I said earlier today.

Today the speed of road construction in the country, the speed of rail tracks, the speed of the railway line, the speed of new air ports, the speed of building the house for the poor, the opening of the bank account opening, the gas connection The pace of everything is moving ahead with a speed of three times more than twice the previous work.

You will be surprised, in our country, we have reached the first two decades of the 21st century now. How many governments have come, the world has changed, but India did not have its Aviation Policy, there was no aviation policy. We came up with Aviation Policy. And the smaller towns in the country such as the District Headquarter tier-2, tier-3 city, there were old air stripes lying there, they made them alive, activated them. Drive campaign to create new air-port And dear my colleagues will be happy to know you, today in our country about half a hundred airplanes are private - corporate should be public. Four and four hundred airplanes are still operating. In this one year, i.e., in the 70 years, we have arrived, about half a dozen airplanes are employed in the whole country. This year, private companies from our country have made private companies, Private people have ordered to buy nearly nine hundred airplanes. Four hundred and fifty hundred in the 70 year journey and in this one year nearly 9 hundred airplanes have been booked. Why? Because we have said in our policy. That the wearer should also travel in the airplane. This is what we want.

If you did not fix things by going to the grassroots level, then, those who are seeing the progress, they are seeing the momentum. It was never possible. Large and stable changes do not come like this. For this, the entire system has to be changed and when these changes happen then only within three years of the country, in the ranking of the World Bank, in the ranking of the World Bank, together with 42 levels jump from 142 to 100 today Has reached and the whole world is surprised.

Next Generation Infrastructure is being built in view of the needs of the brothers and sisters in the country, now in the 21st century. Especially we are preparing the Transport Sector such that they are supporters of each other. Highway, Airway, Railway, Waterway All are being integrated with each other's needs.

Government has started the construction of 53 thousand kilometers of National Highway under Bharat Mala Project. 53 thousand kilometer Work on railway corridors in different areas of the country. The Metro is being expanded in 11 major cities too. Last year, I had the opportunity to open the Kochi Metro. The extension of the Chennai Metro is underway.

In this budget in Bangalore, we have made a huge budget provision for him. In order to develop their infrastructure related to the coastal economy of the country and its associated with our coast, we have also launched a program called Sagar-Mala by this name.

Our Fishermen have launched the Blue Revolution Scheme and they are giving financial help from the Government of India for the purchase of modern trawlers. The government is also developing more than 110 waterways in the country. He was neglected in our country. Rivers can be used for transportation. We have identified 110 such pathways which will also protect the environment. The cost of transportation will be reduced. The consumer will get things cheap because of her.

Brothers and Sisters, those of you who come to India in 2022-23, the country will see another magnificent progress. And that will be the bullet train.

The work of bullet train between Mumbai and Ahmedabad has been started last year. In this two or two hours, you will get this bullet train from Mumbai to Ahmedabad. Not only an incremental improvement in the present system of India by the bullet train but the country is also getting a modern technology and new service delivery system.

Companions, now decisions in India are not avoided. Now India has made a new nature. It's time to defy decisions. Now we are moving ahead with decisions and challenges, every challenge we are preparing to collide. By deciding the goals, plans are completed from time to time. This is an example of a changing work culture in India. This is New India, it is a living proof of New India. This is the reason why in the first place in the country that these attacks were launched every day, so many crore went to the scam, the number of crores went into that scam. When the decisions are made with the brothers and sisters, when it is clear, clear policy, the country's money is saved. When working efficiently, when the best resources are utilized properly, the country's money is saved.

With the help of technology, our government was going through the Direct Benefit Transfer Scheme to save more than Rs 57 thousand crore in the wrong hands and save it. Has done the job of saving the poor pie-pie. Direct Benefit scheme, subsidy of pension, scholarship of pension, money which is transferred directly to people's bank account. Earlier this amount went to the middlemen with the help of fake names. Now all this game has stopped by our government. In this way the money of the people of the country and especially the middle class is being saved. Our lighting plans Brothers and Sisters, in the year 2014, the LED bulb which was more than Rs.500 / - in India, She is now getting 40-50 rupees. Where three hundred and three hundred rupees and where 40-50 rupees Apart from the cheap LEDs, people who are using them in their homes are getting an annualized savings of Rs. 15 thousand crores in the electricity bill. This middle class family has benefited.

You will be surprised to know that as much power is avoiding the LED bulbs. If the country gets to spend more than Rs 45,000 crore in the production of such electricity, the savings of people and the savings of the country can be added to them, the figure of savings is created - about 60 thousand crore rupees. Another example is the brothers and sisters of the fertilizer sector, because of our policies, I'm talking about old people without having to plant a single new fertilizer plant. Efficiency has increased and its causes prevented leakages. Due to this, more than 18-2 million tonnes of urea is being produced. For the production of 2 million tonnes of urea, about Rs 7 to 8 thousand crores of government expenditure has to be spent which was saved and getting urea. Not only this, for the last three to four thousand crores, special money was saved which was used to buy from outside. Apart from this, the subsidy of 800 to 900 crore rupees is also saved in the government. That is With Policy Intervention in the Fertilizer Sector alone, by enhancing efficiency, by monitoring, we have saved about 12 thousand crore rupees in the country. The rights of Hindus, who are of your rights, have the money.

Brothers and Sisters, we used to see petrol agreements, gas agreements, the erosion of earlier governments, to see it again, we began to see closely how many things happened. Now there are 20-20, 25-25 years of agreement. 30-year contracts have been signed. We have studied a little bit, now the credibility of India has also been created. We discussed with those countries and you will be happy to know this. Qatar and Australia renegotiate the agreements we had signed and the changes have taken place and due to this change, the amount of rupees 12 thousand crores will be given less than what was given earlier. These 12 thousand million rupees saved the country.

Brothers and Sisters These four plans I counted to you and the savings from them to the country is more than Rs.1,40,000 crore rupees. you tell. What my brother-sisters did 1 lakh 40 thousand crores which went before He was or did not belong to the poor. Whether it was the right of the poor or not, the money should have been avoided that it should have been avoided. That money should have been used for the poor or should not have come. This government has taken a major fight against corruption and black money in this country due to this approach, regarding this honesty. People earning crores by not paying taxes to the government, people who created benami property, people making fake companies, people who are involved in black money, large fishes are under the scanner of government at this time.

In the past year, you will be surprised to know. In the last one year, approximately three and a half lakhs, you will be shocked. The government has canceled the registration of nearly three lakh suspected companies, they have installed locks. Companions, my countrymen, so much money that send India to hard work contributes to the economy of the country. Now, when some money is sent to some home, then when money is spent in making the arrangements of the country, its strength increases manifold and you have a satisfaction even sitting here. There is a solution.

Honestly earning, honestly, if used, then how much bigger results it brings, and we have taken the responsibility to pursue this honesty.

Companions, we are also aware of the challenges that sometimes you have to face here. Regarding the problems you face, we are constantly in touch with the Oman government and do our best to end your troubles soon. Work has also been done to reduce your problems through e-migrate system and 'help portal'.

The result of many of the government's efforts is that today there is a belief in every Indian living abroad. It has come to believe that if he is trapped in the crisis, his country's government will be present to take him back to the country. A honorary member of his family abroad has become the Government of India.

Our approach is bringing change in the thinking of the whole world. Announcement of International Yoga Day by the United Nations is the example of the formation of the International Solar Alliance on India's initiative. Who are defining India's growing credibility and goodness.

Your support, the country is benefiting from your experience. The whole nation is the debtor to all of you. I consider you an important part of nation's development, nation building. I believe partner. The effect of your resolutions in fulfilling the dream of New India will also be seen in India. I believe that all of you are my siblings. It is my good fortune that I have had the opportunity to see you today, you stay healthy, be happy, with this desire, I end my talk. My best wishes to you

Speak with full force with me, Jai of Bharat Mata, Jai of Bharat Mata, Jai of Bharat Mata

Vande Mataram, Vande Mataram, Vande Mataram, Vande Mataram, Vande Mataram, Vande Mataram