Media friends, 

Ladies and Gentlemen,

Hello!

Good Day! 

Your Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, you have very warmly welcomed me.

In this sixth edition of the World Government Summit, I have been honored with the honor of the chief guest and the honorable guest country of India. It is not only for me, it is a matter of pride and great happiness for the hundred and fifty million of India. I thank you heartily for this.

In the form of Prime Minister, many times I have traveled to the Gulf region several times before. After 2015 I have come to UAE for the second time. Whenever I come here, I feel a special attachment.

Nearly 1.2 million non-resident Indians have found a home away from their home in India, in Dubai, and 33 lakh non-resident Indians from across the UAE. India is grateful to the UAE and Dubai for this, you are grateful.  

I salute you and all the Dubaiites, the rich, greetings and greetings from the Indians.

Friends,

Dubai is unmatched in its use of technology for development. Here the desert sands have been transformed into gold richness. A miracle and miracle have come true.  

There is a vision behind the glory of the sky reaching the heights of today in Dubai, and behind the future imagination. And there is also the resolution. Behind them is technology, innovation and enterprise. I have seen them in the Museum of Future a while ago.

The UAE has not allowed successful experiments in technology to be confined to labs. Used in his life. Its win-win was to see me in Mazdar.

Incubation in the areas of administration of technology by the Dubai Future Accelerator, and many such efforts, predict the future. And his invocation too.

The energy of these efforts, only listening to their dynamism has a good effect. But seeing Rupee is inspiring.

Therefore, it is appropriate that the World Government Summit is held in Dubai. And this special event is going on under the theme of Technology and Development.

Friends,

In the journey of human beings on earth, technology is imprinted on every small scale of development.

About 200 years ago, 94% of the world's nearly one billion people lived in poverty. Today, though the world's population is more than seven billion, that is, about nine and a half percent of the population is in poverty.

200 years ago our average age was less than thirty years. Now it is more than seventy years, that is, more than two-fold.

In the last 25 years, the mortality rates of mothers in India, i.e. maternal mortality has decreased to one-third, and around the world, about halfway.

Scientific achievements like stem cells and regeneration techniques have shown not only the treatment of hard disorders, but also the way of treating organ fractures.

With the weather forecast, farmers can save their crops and increase them. Millions of crores could be saved through disaster management. Maybe technology in the future may also make us predict the disasters like earthquake.

In essence, technology has basically influenced human existence. Technology has played a big role in reaching a high level of quality of life.

One aspect of development is that thousands of years have passed since the Stone Age in the Industrial Revolution. Then it took just two hundred years for the Communication Revolution. And from there the distance to the digital revolution was fixed in a few years.

Now technology is changing with the speed of thought, i.e. at the speed of thought

Necessity is not the mother of invention, inventions are giving birth to needs. Technology has become a huge medium of disruptive change.

Friends,

Accessibility and its spread of technology have empowered the common man.

And this empowerment has got encouragement from 'Minimum Government, Maximum Governance'.

E-governance's 'E' is actually the first letter of effective, efficient, easy, empower and equitable.

Friends,

More than two thousand years ago, a great thinker and strategist Kautilya of India, composed the 'Economics'. Apart from the other subjects, he gave the responsibility of the administration: "Ragno Hey Vranthan Utthaanam". That is, the government should take a fast for development. 

In my opinion, a major role of the government is to ensure that the power of technology is used for the development of every people. And by this use, the speed and ease of service in the service of the citizens.

I also believe that the government should be cautious about the changes and challenges that the technology has generated. So that the use of technology remains creative.

Technology is a gift whose user manual does not mention ethical values. Therefore, sometimes the material of progress makes the means of human destruction and vandalism. 

Examples of misuse of technology by some people used for radicalisation of cyberspace.

Despite all the progress, poverty and malnutrition have not been eliminated from the world. But on the other hand, a large part of the money, time and resources seems to increase the capacity of missiles and bombs.

We have to be careful that we make technology a tool for development, not destruction.

That technology enhances man's natural ability, not reduce it. Do not displace him.

Friends,

Sometimes it seems that human technology is not only conquering nature but it is making a mistake to make it a tool of struggle. The price of this is very heavy.

For the future of humanity we do not have to struggle with nature, we need a path of symbiosis.

The stairs on this path are six 'R': Reduce, Reuse, Recycle, Recover, Redesign and Remanufacture. The destination that we will get from these steps will be 'Rejoice', that is, Anand.

Friends,

The real purpose of human existence is not just prosperity. Rather, there is happiness. Have fun

There is a prayer in Indian scriptures, "Survey Bhavantu Sukhinah:". That is, all are happy. It is compulsory to achieve happiness of holiness and balance.

Your Highness,

In order to form the Ministry of Happiness and the Ministry of Future, you have to recognize the actual purpose of man's existence and his efforts as a whole.

In India, Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh have also taken initiative in this direction.

The government and all the stakeholders should think together about how to make the all-round progress and overall happiness.  

Friends,

How do students and their parents have to deal with the storms in the examination season? Most of us have a great experience (smile)

For a few days, I will talk about crores of children from all over India on an interactive platform together. 

India's philosophy is, 'Sadhya Vidya or Vishukta'. That is, Vidya is the one who becomes the medium of liberation. Use of technology can bring a huge education-revolution in long-test online education. This will also empower the education of the poorest of the poor in far-flung areas.

Friends,

There are many golden chapters of science and technology in India's thousands of years old history.

Whether it is the hypothesis of zero or the calculation of the pie. The decimal system or the origin of the Arabic Numerals. Be Metallurgy or Three Dimensional Line Mathematics. Furnace bricks or construction of world-class ships.

These achievements and the contribution of mathematicians and scientists such as Aryabhatta, Pingal, Brahmagupta, Sushrut, Charak are not only for India but for everyone to be available for development.  

Friends,

The challenges facing today's India - poverty, unemployment, housing, education, natural disasters - victory over them is possible only by the development of everyone. Therefore, the basic spell of my government is 'Sabkaa Ke Saathi, Sabka Vikas'.

With the use of technology for this goal, we are increasingly involved in inclusive development, transparency in governance, especially in all sections of women - empowerment and policy-making of common citizens.

The 'base' program for giving a biometric link and unique identity number to every Indian is the largest program of its kind in the world.
This unique digital identity has been linked to 31 million new bank accounts and consumers' mobile. With this, the government's financial plans have reached about 70,000 crore rupees (i.e. 10 billion dollars) directly to the general public, which were outside the bank system. It also made it possible to stop the misuse of more than $ 56 billion (i.e. 8 billion dollars).

There is a revolution in digital payment and less cash in India. With the use of technology, a tax system i.e. possible GST is possible across India.
With the initiative of Government e-Market (GEM), small businessmen can sell their salmon to the government. So far, transactions worth Rs 28 lakh crore have been carried out.
The aim of our Start-up India program is to create a complete ecosystem for innovation in India. In the last 2 years, there has been an increase of 40% in startups and incubators in India. Increasing participation of youth in Hackathons has given rise to new and successful projects. 
More than 65 percent of India's population is under 35 years of age. By promoting innovation among them and for this we want to realize the vision of 'New India' with international partnerships.  

Two uses of technology are remarkable for our goal of doubling the income of farmers by 2022: First, the Soil Health Card provides information about the soil to the farmers. And second, the portal of Agricultural Mandals, which is trading 36000 crores.
Friends, 

In Indian philosophy, the central beauty of the sun is central importance. 'Surya Soul Jagatsthushish' That is, the Sun is the Soul of the world. We have targeted 175 gigaft renewable energy capacity including 100 gigaft of solar power by 2022. In the last three years we have crossed the figure of 66 GHz. 
With the initiative of International Solar Alliance, India has started a similar effort with other countries, so that the benefits of abundant solar energy available to the lesser developed countries can also be found.
With the distribution of 28 million LED bulbs by the government in the last 3 years, saving not more than just 2 billion dollars, but also 4 GHz power. Not only this, 30 million tons of carbon dioxide also became less.  
The next revolution will be the storage of solar energy. Looking at its importance for balanced and sustainable development, all stake holders should try to get involved.
Friends,

Last month, India's Satellite Launch program created Century. The cost of our achievements in the field of space is many times less than the world. India's Mars Orbital Mission has succeeded in less than the average price of the Hollywood movie.
With the help of Space Technology, the catch of fish has increased from 2 to 5 times. And in the time it takes, there is a reduction of 30 to 70 percent.
Geo-tagging of more than 20 million community assets made from government's major employment schemes is gathering all the important information.
Friends,

India lost the opportunity of industrial revolutions. But now we have targeted leadership not only excellence in cutting edge areas of technology.

In addition to manufacturing and IT, we are paying special attention to Big data analytics, cyber-physics, nanotechnology, artificial intelligence, cyber security, advance energy storage, renewable energy, next generation genomics, cloud technology, advance GIS, etc.

Achievements in these areas will ensure that all the hundred million Indians - the sixth part of humanity - overall development make significant contributions to the development of the whole world.

Friends,

'Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam' - that is the whole world is a family - it has been a vision of India. We have also been implementing our foreign cooperation with everyone.   

Under the Indian Technical and Economic Cooperation Program of more than 50 years, Capacity building in more than 160 countries, or building infrastructure in developing and under-developed countries, India does this cooperation according to their needs.  

Benefits of tele-education and tele-medicine from Pan-Africa e-Network are also reaching remote areas in African countries.

By sharing the experience of solar energy, there has been a rousing home in Africa through trained African solar mamas in India.

Last year India left South Asia satellite From this, the benefits of our space capabilities will be available to our neighboring countries.

Friends, 
it is certain that the problems faced by the world in the coming decades will have to be solved together. And technology will play a big role in it.

It is also decided that if the century of 21st century is to be a century of Asia, it will be even more important to share experience on the forums like World Government Summit.

'Tamso Ma Jyoturgam' - that is, we go from darkness to light, it has been praying in India for thousands of years. This objective can be achieved only if the use of technology is empowering everyone through holistic, balanced, sustainable and inclusive development.

I invite you to the whole world through you that let us join science, technology and governance more closely with humans's golden future.

Let us come together to use technology to eliminate extinction and exploitation for centuries.

It is a matter of great satisfaction that India has been able to find capable partners in the form of United Arab Emirates for such efforts.

I hope this version of the Summit will be a detailed, intensive and useful discussion on technology, development, administration and the future of the world. 

I was given this opportunity to be confronted with you, I thank you very much once again.

Frian Jazilan 