'Pariksha Par Charcha': PM Narendra Modi shares the secret of concentration with students

Here are the updates on Narendra Modi's 'Pariksha Par Charcha' programme held at Delhi's Talkatora stadium.

Check Latest Updates

14:16 PM IST

The PM apologizes once again for being unable to speak in all regional languages of India and wishing students all the best, concludes Pariksha Ki Charcha.

14:14 PM IST

The next questions posed to PM Modi was about how yoga helps in improving concentration during exam preparation. He was also asked to suggest a few asanas which can help students calm down and prepare better. Along with it, he was asked to explain the difference between IQ and EQ.

The PM explains the difference with an example of how a three-month-old baby teaches himself about the cause and effect of certain common sounds like the sounds of the ghungroo that his/her mother is wearing. The way the baby can teach himself is IQ.


He continues to explain that mothers often play some music to help their baby to sleep but at times no artificial music can work to calm the baby. If the baby doesn't stop crying, the mother might come rushing out from the kitchen, stop the other music playing and start singing in her own imperfect voice. The baby quiets down. "This is EQ," says the PM.

He says that Intelligence Quotient and Emotional Intelligence Quotient are both necessary for a good life. The PM explains how our EQ keeps developing the more we interact with various people we meet in our day to day life, be it security guards or vegetable sellers. This is because the very manner of our thinking keeps changing as out emotional intelligence develops along with empathy.
The development of EQ is of primary importance at this time especially in schools, says Modi. He says that stopping in the middle of a sports match to help a fallen opponent is a sign of high EQ. It shows that even though a decision is going to be taken on who won or lost, one's moral grounds refuses to let him/her concentrate only on the game.

Regarding yoga asanas, the PM says that though it is true that as per science, certain postures give benefit in specific ways, it is best if students pick those asanas that they can do or are comfortable with.

He stresses on the importance of quality sleep for good health. He asks students to look up on 'yog nidra' which can help deepening and providing better, more complete sleep.

14:09 PM IST

The next question for the PM was whether it would hamper exam preparations if one took breaks in the middle of studies to play sports or chat with friends.

Yet another student also asked how to minimise the use of mobiles to focus on studies.

"If you want to focus more, you have to learn how to DE-FOCUS. If you want to keep filling a vessel, you also need to know how to empty it," says the PM. So, it is essential that you don't keep mulling over exams, failure and marks for 24x7. He tells students that even in his exam days, he went for a dip in the village pond every day. He says that it is extremely important for us to be in touch with the five basic elements and nature.

14:07 PM IST

He explains that parents need to understand that the profession of one's child shouldn't become a factor of social status. He says that parents tend to discuss their children's profession and careers with other parents during gatherings and become dejected if their own child is not as per the other child's standards.

"I would tell them not to make this a social status issue. Be honest and open about what your own child's skills are. But don't try to compare them with someone else's child," says Modi.
He goes on to say that every child is blessed with some kind of skill or talent from god. No one is born with no skills.

14:05 PM IST

The PM informs that surprisingly there were probably as many teachers who asked him how they could change the mentality of students. Modi requests the students to understand that one of the primary motives of parents is to see their children rise. They sacrifice much for the happiness of their children and students need to understand where their feelings are coming from. He also tells the audience about the other kind of parents who are unable to achieve their own dreams because of some reason and so, try to transplant them into their children.

14:03 PM IST

"How can we change the mentality of majority of parents who believe studying is just for earning," asks a student from IIT-BHU.

14:00 PM IST

The next set of questions was the most popular from students and dealt with the pressure on students from their parents. A class 9 student from Delhi asked whether it was right that parents remained dissatisfied even after their children got 80-90 per cent and wanted them to become only doctors or engineers which were killing the dreams and hopes of children.

13:58 PM IST

Students need to compete with themselves and not others, says the PM. They need to beat their own record and goals to achieve growth with full self confidence. This confidence from bettering one's own self can take them to new heights. In this regard, he gives the example of Ukrainian pole vaulter Sergey Bubka who broke his own record a staggering 36 times!

13:50 PM IST

One of the main causes of stress and nervousness comes from constantly comparing oneself with other students who might have their own individual strengths and weaknesses.

13:45 PM IST

He tells the students that this is why they need to understand themselves completely and friends can actually help in this regard. This way they can achieve growth in the direction they want to go.
He reminds the students that all the greatest sportspersons are never asked for their degrees or qualifications. This is because they understood what their own field and talents lie and achieved growth in that.

13:42 PM IST

Modi says that as per the science of war or sports, we need to play on our own ground. He advises that as an independent, separate person, it is not correct to compare oneself with a peer who is a different person. The other person's environment, experiences and growth are completely different. He tells the students that one of the biggest problems is not knowing or understanding oneself. This makes them follow others and blindly follow them. This way students cannot attain their own individual goals and talents, become sad and dejected and then get scolded by their parents.

13:41 PM IST

The third set of question the PM takes is on the effect of peer pressure on students which takes away the beauty of friendship and instead pushes students to compete with their peers.

13:22 PM IST

He speaks upon the importance of mindfulness and tells students that if they are "offline" while studying, they won't be able to concentrate. He says that whatever we do, we need to give our entire attention to that-this is the secret of concentration.

13:18 PM IST

The PM speaks on the time Sachin Tendulkar appeared on Mann Ki Baat and related how he never thinks about his past performances on the pitch. He only thinks about the present moment. Modi tells the students how this way the past can become a burden on the present and future.

13:16 PM IST
"Some people believe that yoga is an exercise. But yoga is not just body bending. If it was so, every circus performer would be a yogi. Yoga brings together the mind, body and breath," says the PM.

13:12 PM IST

Modi tells students that many might say that they are unable to memorise, but goes on to remind them that if someone says something bad to us, we tend to remember it more. So the problem doesn't lie with one's memory. Something that touches us deeply in some way can be easily memorised and remembered.

13:06 PM IST
PM Modi remind students that concentration is not as unattainable a factor as it is made to seem. Each of us can concentrate extremely well in certain actions, such as overhearing a favourite song after which our entire focus shifts to that melody, lyrics and even its video. "You need to realise what are the reasons and factors that make this shift happen. If you can grab this recipe, you can apply the same method in different areas of life!"

13:03 PM IST

Two more questions come the PM's way:

Kanishka, a student of class 10, Noida, asks: "If a student is willing to concentrate on studies but gets easily distracted, what steps can be taken?"

On the same lines, Pranav Vyas of IIT-BHU asks how to concentrate in academics or some other passion in life when one gets easily disoriented and distracted.

12:57 PM IST

Modi advices students that while going to school, they should get it into their heads that they are their own examiners. No one else can judge them just with marks.

"Our country is a diverse one with more than 100 languages and more than 1700 dialects," says the PM. He apologises for not being able to speak in multiple languages and requests that these words may be translated for students all over the country.

12:52 PM IST

To inspire students PM Modi gives the example of Winter Olympics snowboarder Mark who got into a massive accident around a year before the Olympics which caused him around 22 fractures. But despite staying in the hospital for 11 months, he brought a gold medal at the Winter Olympics.

12:50 PM IST

"There are many students who while going to their exams, goes to a Hanuman mandir and makes offerings. I used to make fun of such students. The main thing is self confidence. It is not a pill that you can pop anytime," says the PM.

12:48 PM IST

PM Modi answers:
"There is no negligence in effort. Parents, teachers and students are all putting in their honest effort. What happens during exams is that even after preparation, you remember the content, but you simply cannot remember the word!"

"Swami Vivekananda used to say that you might pray to 33 crore gods and goddesses but if you don't have self confidence, those 33 crore gods won't be able to do anything."

12:46 PM IST

Samiksha, a Class 11 student from Delhi, asks: "During exams, inspite of being prepared and confident, there is a nervousness, how do we deal with this?"

12:43 PM IST

"This is not the programme of PM Modi. It is the programme of crores of students across the country," says the PM.

12:42 PM IST

"If the student inside is kept alive, it gives us the strength to live," says PM Modi.

12:40 PM IST

He starts off by assuring students that he is their friend and it is the students who are going to take his exam.

12:40 PM IST

Prime Minister Narenda Modi is invited on stage to speak to students on examination tips.

12:31 PM IST

Students from Kendriya Vidyalaya begin dance performance on the theme of examination stress.

12:28 PM IST

"No brain drain and instead brain gain" - this is what the PM Research Fellowship will provide to the Indian students by improving research funding and facilities. It will prevent students from having to leave the country for quality higher studies.

12:26 PM IST

HRD Minister Prakash Javadekar starts off the session by stressing the importance of outcome-based education and highlighting why learning outcomes is the need of the hour right now.

12:17 PM IST

Delhi's Talkatora is packed with teachers and students. The PM will be fielding questions from Delhi students and also those from other states. Students will also hold cultural performances on the theme of managing exam stress.

12:09 PM IST

The Prime Minister allows students to get some photos clicked with him in front of the displayed paintings and proceeds to the stage.

12:00 PM IST

11:53 AM IST

